# **COMS 352: UNIX SHELL**
## Author: Benjamin Vogel

## How to Run
1. Run ***make clean*** when in the project folder to remove any unecessary or outdated files
2. Run ***make*** command when in the project folder
3. Run ***./myshell*** when in the project folder to launch the unix shell

## Documentation Notes
While I'll try to make a relatively detailed README, there are javadoc-esque comments within the actual files themselves as well as documentation throughout the code. 

**NOTE**: The javadoc style comments are wtihin the ***header*** files rather than the class files. I decided to write them there in order to reduce the number of lines in the class files to make it easier on the eyes.

## What is the UNIX Shell?

The unix shell is the implementation of a UNIX-based shell that handled inputs by the user and outputs them either to a command line or an output file (by the discretion of the user). This shell supports foreground processes, background processes, reading and writing to files, piping, and executing multiple commands on from one line. This specific UNIX shell supports the following explicit commands (see more from the pdf):
 - date
 - cal
 - who
 - ls
 - ps
 - time
 - cd *directory*  
    - Changes current default directory to *directory* if the argument is present
 - clr
    - Clears the screen
 - dir *directory*
    - Lists the contents of *directory*
 - environ
    - List the environment strings
 - echo *comment*
    - Displays *comment* on the display
 - help
    - Displays the user manual using ***more*** filter
 - pause
    - Pause the operation of the shell until "ENTER/RETURN" key is pressed
 - quit
    - Quits the shell
 - more
 
as well as any other native linux commands. The shell also supports running shell commands from a file given as an argument within calling the application itself.

## Structure of the Files
### myshell.cpp
myshell is the main method of the shell. It takes in inputs from the user or a given file and instructs the Parser to parse the input and Executor to execute those provided processes.

### process.h
process.h contains the Process class. Process is a data structure designed to contain all of the needed information for the Executor to execute the specific process associated with that Process object.

### parser.h and parser.cpp
parser.h and parser.cpp contain the definition and implementation of the Parser class. The Parser class is designed to take the inputs from the shell and break them up into the following:
 - Independent Processes (No communication between them, denoted by ";")
 - Piped Processes (Communication from one process to another, denoted by "|")
 - Arguments for each process

The Parser breaks them up into Process objects and returns them in a formate the Executor will use to execute the processes.

### executor.h and executor.cpp
executor.h and executor.cpp contain the definition and implementation of the Executor class. The Executor class is designed to take the parsed Process objects generated by the Parser class and execute them based on their arguments. The Executor handles the foreground processes, background processes, and piped processes.

### trim.h and trim.cpp
Helper functions for trimming whitespace when parsing inputs

## Design Philosophy
I decided on this file structure in order to separate the different tasks to be performed by the shell, parsing the input and executing off of those inputs. By doing so, I could make the main method much more simple as well as create a more object-oriented approach which can make changing the code and making small adjustments easier and decreases the likelihood of everything failing.

# Thank you and enjoy!
